Data Collection: I collected my data from Our World in Data. This site provided a CSV file that contained data on the Coronavirus (Covid-19) deaths and vaccinations. The data collected on Covid-19 deaths had 60 columns and 85172 rows data collected on covid vaccinations dataset had 37 columns and 76277 rows of data. I only utilized 10 columns from each dataset. After downloading both datasets, I reviewed and cleaned both files using Excel and SQL. I deleted rows that contained summary information that was unnecessary for my analysis. I also filtered the dataset to remove null values. I dropped columns to simplify my project such as metrics on health risks per location. After cleaning each dataset, I joined them together using SQL and visualized the data in Tableau.

Project Summary: Considering that I’ve had Covid-19 once and have loss family members to this virus, I’ve learned how deadly it can be. There are many risk factors for getting very sick with Covid-19. A few include older adults over the age of 65 years old, underlying medical conditions, and even one’s home or work environment. As a result, people from racial and ethnic minority groups and people with disabilities are even more at risks. Considering that Covid-19 was the deadliest plague, it’s important for everyone to stay up to date on the latest vaccines and take pre-cautionary measures when experiencing symptoms. It is my hope that my target audience can get a better understanding of how deadly the virus can be and how important their role is in making the world a healthier place for all. 

To conduct my analysis, I leveraged Tableau and Python. I began my analysis by identifying basic trends in SQL such as examining the continents that had the highest deaths. After further evaluation, I discovered that Europe had the highest house price index, followed by North America, Asia, South America, Africa and Australia. I then wanted to get a better understanding of the infection by country. After further analysis, I discovered that the top five countries with the highest infection count was Singapore, Sweden, New Zealand, Serbia, and Iraq. Considering that most of the countries listed are not third-world countries, I was surprised to see that they had high infection counts as most of them have access to proper resources. I was also able to capture a few KPIs including the total cases, total deaths and total death percentage from 2020-2024. It’s respective KPIs are, 3,286,615,896, 29,470,239, and 89.66%. To assist with my Tableau reporting, I pulled the population amount, date and the percent of population infected by country. Through my analysis, I found that that by 2024 United Kingdom had the highest percentage of their population followed by the United States. In fact, the Covid-19 numbers are higher than what we saw two years ago. Considering that news outlets barely cover Covid-19 statistics nowadays, this analysis was surprising to me. As a result, Covid-19 is very prevalent today and citizens should continue to take pre-cautionary measures to keep everyone healthy. 

